and we start with breaking news tonight
at 10:00 newly released body camera
video from Aurora police is giving us
new insight into the moments before
Elijah McLean's August death speaking of
video all three of their body cams fall
off during the struggle you heard me
correctly all three of the officers
claimed that their body cameras quotes
fall off now someone called police to
report McLean as a suspicious man
wearing a ski mask in waving his hands
the 23 year old was walking home from a
convenience store his family said he
wore the ski mask because he was an emic
and was often cold one of the questions
so many people are asking why was Elijah
mcclain detained by police in the first
place he hadn't committed a crime Elijah
McLean was walking on the sidewalk when
officers arrived and continued walking
as they told him to stop stop stop you
because you're being suspicious
we got 1,700 voicemails on our main
phone number and our server only holds
1,700 voicemail Dave Young is the Adams
County prosecutor in the Elijah mcclain
case the man who did not file criminal
charges against the officers involved in
Maclean's death now 10 months later he's
hearing about it is it going to have an
impact on my decision and the answer is
no I think they should have investigated
more so you're saying if a pathologist
doesn't give you a home run yes you
never go forward with a case and by the
way there was no injuries to him
whatsoever
yes but he's dead yeah if you want to
say the forensic pathologist doesn't
know what he's doing you could say that
all you want no that's what you were
saying to get away from my question
you're saying they're no injuries the
guy's dead
so clearly things happen to him that
were wrong mr. da I don't have any
grounds to open up a new investigation
but you could and certainly yeah I could
I could send investigators out and open
an investigation on anything but I've
got to have a reason to do that and
right now I don't have a reason police
stopped him while he was walking they
say he was resisting arrest so they put
him in a carotid control hold and he
passed out and then when paramedics
arrived on scene they chose to
administer the sedative ketamine
something Aurora Fire says is standard
protocol around our region a female cop
holds an already complied Elijah while
the paramedic injects at least 1,400
milligrams of ketamine into his neck
which is visible on the coroner's report
Steven Cena Chief Coroner says this is a
normal dose of ketamine
but while researching I found that 680
milligrams of ketamine is potentially
lethal for someone who is 132 pounds
Elisha weighed 140 pounds and this is
why I hold not only row Dima Rosenblatt
and Woodyard accountable but also the
paramedic jeremy cooper and the female
officer who held him down and the female
officer who was flirting and laughing
with other officers while elisha mclean
lay dying on the ground stop stop right
stop you because you're being suspicious
police say the officers were put on
leave and they are back on the job the
department is still looking into use of
force in this case one of the important
roles of the mainstream media of the
press is in drawing the public's
attention to a problem however politics
the sphere of real politics involving
real legislation and real amendments to
the Constitution are writing all new
constitution real politics instead deals
with solutions to problems those are two
profoundly different things even though
they're linked even though you may get
them mixed up from time to time
Elijah MacLean died on August 24th of
I think it's fair to say that the real
journalists were the people
investigating the story nine months ago
today I see an article from Cosmopolitan
magazine was posted and Cosmopolitan
magazine is telling you how you can
protest his death how you can join in
the wave of public outrage now the
authors of that article are Cosmopolitan
magazine I'm sure they only have good
intentions I'm sure they think of
themselves as activists and what they're
doing in contributing to this wave of
outrage resembles most of the commonly
perceived activism in the year 2020 I
don't think they'd stop to consider how
what they're doing in publishing that
article is really very different from
true journalism and how it's very
different from true activism who paid
for
Alijah McClane's lawyers I Google around
for this stuff and I could see a vague
mention of local activists sometimes you
get mentions of church groups and you
don't know I mean I think there were
real activists involved in this case
nine months ago and six months ago and
so on I think there really was a
struggle that directly involved his
parents and family and those people and
their stories are really important to
know but because of the popularity of
the slogan black lives matter somehow
the actual organization of you know
resistance on behalf of Elijah MacLean
it's attributed to black lives matter
the organization you know which is a
unique organization founded by three
women which has its own bank account and
its own form 990 it exists legally and
it has his own YouTube channel its own
Twitter page and everything else too and
googling around I can't find any
evidence that black lives matter at the
organization those three women that they
were involved in this case or even
though they knew about it six months ago
and and not let's go I'm sure
they know about it today for the same
reasons that Cosmopolitan magazine knows
about it and probably they will now do
the same thing Cosmopolitan magazine is
then I would expect within the next 48
hours the three co-founders of black
lives matter will make public statements
quite similar to what Cosmopolitan
magazine did calling for donations
encouraging you to get involved
encouraging you to join the wave of
outrage encourage you to join the
current protests or quote-unquote
activism as it's so cold now I
sympathize but I think it's important to
point out the gap between expectations
and reality with black lives matters an
organization many groups of donors have
offered to pay millions of dollars in
some cases more than ten million dollars
in some cases more than a hundred
million dollars to build black lives
matter in the organization that they in
their minds I desire it to be now the
three founders of black lives matter
that's not what they want and they've
made that clear in interviews it's quite
interesting what their response is to
their newfound fame and in a sense their
newfound fortune because they have all
these donors offering to support them to
support budgets of millions of dollars
per year and they've stepped back from
that and said no no that's not what they
intend to do it okay interesting I think
that most people would respond to my
video up to this point by saying well
these three women who happen to invent
this catchphrase black lives matter who
created this hashtag on Twitter how can
you possibly expect them to know about
and care about and get engaged with
every single example of police brutality
snuffing out a person's life or even
narrow it down just noting oedema an
african-american a black person's life
how could they possibly know about this
case in Colorado six months ago or nine
months ago how can you expect them to
know more than the people at CNN or
cosmos magazine you know what happe well
it's not that I expected them as
individuals to know that it's not that
expect more women as individuals the
point was precisely that they made the
decision to start a movement they made
the decision to start an institution and
to start receiving donations to build up
that institution it's very easy to
imagine black lives matter over the last
three years having developed into an
institution that was on top of all these
cases that was directly involved with it
was maybe even providing the money for
the lawyers and what-have-you but that
is today not what black lives matter is
at all if you compare a multi-million
dollar organization like petaa People
for the Ethical Treatment animals to the
reality of black lives matter black
lives matter is as their own leaders and
founders will stay to you a totally
decentralized the loose affiliation of
local chapters of activists of people
who just know each other back and forth
over Twitter and a case like Elijah
MacLean shows that three years later and
four years later after the beginning of
this black lives matter hash tag
catchphrase movement and institution
they're still really is a need for an
organization that has the depth as the
resources has the lawyers and has the
money to respond to an instance like
this before
Cosmopolitan magazine before CNN before
the wave of outrage has started to
actually get involved
analyze that what the problem is and
then to really lobby for to really
propel to really be effective activists
for the solution I think we're living
through a period of history that cannot
last long in which people look to the
mainstream media for activism and that
increasingly their notion of what an
activist ought to be is kind of polluted
by their contact with this increasingly
insincere outraged culture that
ultimately is just monetized by that
mainstream media
then at that time
[Music]